Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
What's your name?
Alberto.
Alberto?
I've never met anyone called Alberto.
What are they like?
What are Albertos like?
I don‘t know.
They're the same as Antonios,
Ricardos,
Vicentes.
Vicentes. ..
I've met a Vicente once.
He was insane.
Insane.
He told me I was the most beautiful
woman he'd ever seen.
He was insane.
He died young.
It couldn't have been otherwise.
What about me?
Will I die young?
- Do I look like a psychic?
- No.
How about a whore?
Don't we all?
It depends.
You don't.
Don't I?
So, what do I look like?
You look like a poet.
What do you mean?
Your eyes are too sad.
All men whose eyes
are too sad are poets.
But you never cry, do you?
The world isn't real
unless a man cries.
We must watch out for sadness.
It impregnates the soul.
It unfolds like life.
It becomes the name itself.
Al Berto.
A ﬁlm by
Ba by baby
Let's get together
And do the things
Do the things
That we like to do
Do a little dance
Make a little love
Get down tonight
Do a little dance
Make a little love
Get down tonight
Baby baby
I'll meet you
The same place
Same time
Where we can
Get together
And ease up our mind
Do a little dance
Make a little love
Get down tonight
Down tonight
Do a little dance
Make a little love
Get down tonight
I'm Joao, I'm from here.
I went to school
with your brother Chico.
Really?
I don't remember your face.
That's alright,
I don't remember yours either.
Shall we go?
- Have you decided where to?
- Let's go to Buzio.
I think I'm going to go.
Come along, you'll get
to know the group!
Alors, tu viens?
Leonor says you came to Sines to write
a book and revolutionise the town.
And that you want to be a poet.
Or was it a painter?
I can't remember.
I'm not good at art.
But I'd love to!
You were in Brussels, weren't you?
I've never left...
IfI could choose...
Paris. I think the ﬁrst place
I'd visit would be Paris.
I'm absolutely sure Paris would love
meeting you, Clara.
- Why? What makes you say that?
- There's something Parisian about you.
Me?! No...
Joao Maria says I look like
Anna Karina, Godard's muse.
ButI don't think so.
She's beautiful...l
So is Romy Schneider.
But that's a whole different story...
- And we're in Sines...
- That isn't necessarily bad.
Do you really think
a poet or a writer
could make that much difference
in such a small town?
With the right friends, sure.
Clara!
Excuse me.
I'm leaving.
Do you need a lift?
- Right now? But it's still early!
- Are you coming?
Yes, I'm coming.
Well, I'd better go, my mum doesn't
want me walking home alone at night.
Good night, Al Berto.
- I had a lovely time.
- Good night, Clara.
- See you tomorrow.
- See you!
The poor thing, Joao!
She'll be back, don't worry.
So?
Where's Clara?
- She went home.
- Alone?
- No. What's his name... Ze'?
- Yes, Zé.
- He left with her.
- Ah! That's better.
Walking alone to Bairro das Indias
is not a good idea.
So, how about you?
Are you okay? Having fun?
I know this isn't Bruxelles, hein!
But it still helps to
take your mind off things, right?
Excuse me, can I have a beer?
Your friends are great!
Thank you.
Come, now, my love...
You shall want for nothing.
Especially someone
to have a few drinks with.
And these guys, they all
read and write...
You'll see, you'll ﬁnd
very interesting people here.
Here's to them!
Thank you.
Santé!
You have no idea
how happy you've made me!
Happiness is
overrated, Leonor.
Good night.
Okay, I'll think about it.
- Bye!
- Take care.
- Bye.
- Goodbye.
Well, I'm off.
- We'll walk with you.
- No, that's okay. Thanks.
I enjoy walking alone.
I'll be ﬁne.
Iféxes'rii
The door was open.
The door is always open.
You've got piano hands.
- Piano hands?
- Yes.
Your fingers are long and delicate.
You need long, delicate
fingers to play the piano.
Mine are... short and fat.
They're useless.
I wouldn't say that.
I can even give you a few examples...
of what they're good for.
You bastard!
Shouldn't you go home?
Are you sending me away?
No.
I'm just not used to
spending the night with someone.
That's all.
Me neither.
Actually, I...
I had never spent the whole night
with someone...
You hadn't?
No.
Alberto!
- Ola!
- Pedro!
What did I tell you?
Good morning.
Al Berto?
Yes, that's me. How can I help you?
This is my boyfriend, Miguel.
The little brat is Pedro.
And I'm Manuela.
- Hi.
- Hello.
I'm not sure if you know Lidia,
the daughter of Mrs Aliete -
you know, the lady with
the eyepatch...
She told us you...
We've rented a house, you see,
but the landlady needs it back because
her daughter's getting married...
And with so many people
working at the port
we seem to be a bit... at a loss.
Do you need a place to stay?
That's alright. You can stay here.
There's always room
for one more.
Come along!
But ever since I got here...
it's been a nightmare.
I've thought about going back,
but with the kid...
Forget it! You have the same rights
as everyone else!
We didn't bring anything...
Except the clothes on our back.
I forgot to mention, my whole family
comes from Lourenco Marques.
My parents stayed behind,
they wouldn't leave.
- And now what?
- Now, nothing! It's over, isn't it?
What are my two girls
talking about?
- The deceased.
- Why?
- We wouldn't talk about it anymore.
- Yes, but I asked...
Do you know what happened
to Chico Ze'?
No.
Everybody's talking about it
at the fish market.
- He killed himself this morning.
- Leonor didn't know...
- I asked.
- Nosy!
And Al Berto's house
has also been seized!
They say they need the land to build a
housing development. Can you imagine?
I went to a job interview
the other day.
Do you know what the dick said
just as I turned my back?
Go back to where you came from,
to the land of the blacks!
- What did you say?
- Nothing.
What they're doing
is disgraceful, let me tell you.
The difference, Manuela,
is that now we can react.
- Why didn't you smoke in here?
- With all this smoke?
Yeah, there's too much smoke.
I can't stand it, man!
I've been ill recently.
- Did you know I used to smoke?
- Really?
Miss Goody Two-shoes used to smoke?!
It's true!
But it was a long time ago.
This calls for a toast.
Everybody, I'd like to propose a toast,
please raise your glasses!
- Fine, let's have a toast.
- Cheers!
Wait, let me say a few words.
Calm down!
- Here's to you, Leonor!
- No! Wait!
- To Leonor!
- Chin-chin!
- Don't close your eyes!
- Don't cross your arms!
It took them merely five years
to destroy the beach.
They're fooling people with household
appliances and employment promises.
People are so desperate
they'll believe anything.
If it were me,
I'd bomb that office.
Fucking fascists.
Right or wrong, they pay my salary.
Do you work at the complex, Duarte?
I and three thousand others.
This used to be very poor,
Al Berto. Very poor...
You could either go to sea or emigrate.
My family worked at sea their whole
life and never starved, Duarte.
This is nothing.
As soon as the petrochemical
discharges begin, we'll see.
We put an end
to the dictatorship's poison
but found another poison to kill us.
But do people really want the complex?
Now, Master Al Berto,
it's not a question of wanting.
Money will resist anything,
even revolutions.
Haven't you brought anything?
No.
They were too big.
I wasn't able to bring anything.
Paint me instead.
Elle est retrouvée.
Quoi?
L' Eternité.
C'est la mer alle'e avec le soleil.
Mai 1872.
You could paint Rimbaud's sun
on the living room ceiling.
I could write "sun"
Write?
3:3
Say it...
Sun!
You see?
The word is much more radiant.
Sun...
I'm sorry I took off.
We've missed you.
"Live your eternity in each moment.
"Without grief
"0r yearning
"Live it
"Whole and strong
"In frantic bravery
"So that your death
may always be an ending
"And never a beginning"
- I don't know. Are you sure?
- Let me see.
- Are you sure?
- Let me see!
Except for Joao Maria
no one has ever read my stuff.
It's as if they didn't exist.
Nonsense!
A poet can go his whole life
without publishing a book.
But he'll never stop being a poet.
How are you going to do this?
You're taking
the books on consignment, right?
What else can I do?
I hardly have enough cash flow.
This will need some work.
THE LAND BELONGS
TO THOSE WHO WORK IT!!
I can't believe the nerve
of some people!
The town is full of them, Clarinha.
There aren't enough women for
all the guys working in construction.
- Now, that's true!
- Why don't they bring their wives?
Or get girlfriends?
Sines is full of young,
beautiful girls, eager to get married.
I don't think these guys
want to get married.
Most of them probably already are!
- Traitors!
- You're overreacting!
He emigrated with his family,
he even invited you to go with him...
That story again?
He sent her a letter...
Actually, a wedding invitation!
As soon as he was gone
he got himself another girl!
And a French girl at that!
A French blonde!
And he used to say he hated blondes.
Would you ever cheat on someone, B.?
Me?
I don't know...
It never happened to me.
- No?
- Well, I would!
If it was with Raquel Welch.
Or Brigitte Bardot!
Blondes, right?
Blondes!
Do you think cheating changes anything?
I don't know.
I should ask my mum.
And what about the bookshop? Will it
be named "Tanto Mar" ("All This Sea")?
I like the title.
It isn't a title, Duarte. It's a name.
You're sleeping on the ﬂoor tonight,
Al Berto.
- You're not the boss of me!
No, you're not the boss of me!
And now you listen to me.
I need your body each and every day.
Life is too short for
the desire I feel for you!
If you perched on my hand
you'd know that closed
it would be home,
open
it would be the sky,
and that you would never be alone.
Bravo!
Fucking fairies!
- B. ,they're not worth it...
- Good evening.
Beat it...
before I smash your face.
Fucking fairy!
Do you know
where the petrol station is?
Just around the corner?
If you continue straight ahead
you'll see a garden.
And after the garden, a house.
That's where I live.
The door is always open.
Whenever you wish to smash my face,
just drop by.
Let's go!
Does he usually hit him?
I'm guessing this isn't the ﬁrst time.
What about your father?
Did he ever hit you?
No.
You were lucky.
He died young.
I was little.
Is that right?
How did he die?
In a car crash.
Right, that's what they say
at the fish market.
And what else do they say?
Al Berto...
People like change.
They're very happy
with this change, but...
You know some things
are better... out of sight.
- You know that, right?
- No... Idon't. You tell me.
You and him, of all people!
Your family has always been
highly respected, and so has his.
You're not a bunch of deadbeats
like my family.
You know,
we didn't leave.
We went to war!
We don't own houses in Lisbon.
We live in Bairro das Indias.
Do you know why we don't dream
of being artists?
Do you?
Because we spend the night
at sea, afraid of dying.
What are you trying to say?
I'm trying to tell you to get your
things and get the hell out of here!
Before something happens to you.
What was that?
It's the blasts at the quarry.
They've started again.
Get dressed.
I want to show you something.
My Joao...
My wind...
My August.
Don't be scared.
I'm here.
SEARCHING FOR THE WIND
What is it? What's going on?
Nothing.
Where's Al Berto?
He's taking care of some phone calls
for the publisher.
Have you shown him anything?
- What about?
- Your writing, Joao!
I know you have
a drawer full of texts!
Why won't you let him know
you also like to write?
- No.
- Why not?
I don't want him to think...
- I'm not like you, Sara.
- No.
No, you're not, Joao. And you
don't have to be here, unlike me!
Because if you had to,
you'd show him your writing.
What if it doesn't work out
and nobody buys anything?
What are you so afraid of?
I don't get it.
- Nothing, forget it. I just don't...
- What?
Are you afraid he might
go back to Lisbon? Is that it?
- No. That's not it, no.
- You're such a liar, Joao...
What do you want?
- What do you mean, what do I want?
- You heard me, what do you want?
I know what I want, Joao.
It may not seem like it, but I do.
And if Al Berto were to tell me:
"Sara, I want to publish your stuff."
What's the harm?
Tell me, what's the big deal?
If a miracle doesn't happen
I'll end up here.
Like my parents and
grandparents.
I don't want to spend
the rest of my life here.
And you, Joao,
you'd better start living yours.
"Tanto Mar" - "All This Sea".
The bookshop.
Finally!
- How long haveI been asleep?
- Two or three hours.
Are you hungry?
No.
B., can I ask you something?
Sure, go ahead.
Have you...
Have you ever been with a woman?
Ah Clarinha, Clarinha...
Yes.
I've been with women.
Why?
You're not going to tell me
you're in love with me.
You're so handsome...
So inspiring...
Brave.
Boys here...
They're not like you.
They lack...
Sparkle.
They lack sparkle in their eyes.
I'm not sure
I'm all that.
- But thank you.
- You are.
Joao Maria is a lucky man.
I hope one day I'll find
a man like you. But I doubt it.
I'll likely end up like Leonor.
A spinster at thirty.
A teacher, all alone.
I don't believe it.
One day he'll come along.
And I trust Leonor has a boyfriend
in Alcochete, you can bet!
Hum... I doubt it!
And those women you've been with,
was that in Brussels?
Yes.
And why did it end?
She left.
She packed her bags and left.
Is that why you came back?
No.
I came back...
Because I think I ﬁgured out there
what I wanted to be here.
Because it was time to come back home.
Right.
Maybe that's what I'll have to do.
What?
Leave.
Why don't you?
Because I'm scared.
I never wanted to see you
through your eyes
for I believed you were
the way I saw you.
I never wanted to be
what you desired
for I believed you were
the way I desired.
And I never said
what you heard
forI lived hoping to hear you say
what you never did.
That's beautiful!
- Now you, Al Berto!
- No. Not yet.
When the book's
closer to being finished
I promise to do a session at the house
and I'll read it cover to cover.
- Promise.
- Okay. It's a promise.
And how about you, Joao Maria,
why don't you read us something?
- No, I haven't brought anything.
- You are such a liar!
- He brought something.
- Joao...
- Read!
- Come on.
This will do.
When dawn broke
I laid my naked breast
over your breast
I was trembling
my face was pale
my hands were cold
and the agony of return
now dwelled in my eyes
I wanted to kiss you
with a vague thankful caress
but as my lips
touched your lips
I realised death
was already in me
and thatI had to flee
so I wouldn't miss a single moment
in which I was
the true absence of sorrow
and you were true serenity
To Joao!
To Joao.
I'm very curious about
one author.
He brought... He's bringing
all kinds of different things.
- Yes, I can see that.
- Ah! Bob Dylan!
I love him!
he wrote some songs about...
Yeah, but Bob Dylan is my favourite.
- For me, he could win the Nobel Prize.
- The Nobel Prize in Music?
- Isn't there one?
- No!
- How are you?
- I'm great!
I think it's terrific.
The decoration is so simple...
Sines deserved a bookshop
like this...
There are foreign books,
even a French book.
What the hell are you doing here?
Haven't you had enough?
Hadn't you left?
Get out! Get the hell out! Now!
- Did you hear me?
- Stop it! Please.
- Are you out of your mind, Joao? Stop!
- She knows damn well. Fucking whore!
- Stop it!
- Get out!
Out!
It looks terrific!
Salope!
- Why haven't you called?
- What are you doing here?
I had enough of the old lady,
I couldn't put up with her anymore!
And you! Living like a king in this
palace and keeping it all to yourself!
When I told you I was coming to Sines
you rolled your eyes at me!
Liar. I did not!
Ca c'est super, mon amour!
Ah! And there's alcohol too!
What? Beer?! Really?
You know I hate beer...
Is there any whisky?
Here!
Did you put that in your mouth, chéri?
Yeah, why?
You don't have any oral infections,
do you?
It's just that...
- I have such sensitive lips!
- No.
Oral infections, no...
- Only dirty words.
- Ouch!
I love it!
I love dirty words...
Especially when they look like this,
big.
blue-eyed,
bearded...
- Give him a kiss, Dudu!
- Shut up!
You give me a kiss!
- I'm coming, hot stuff, I'm coming!
- Who's that guy?
He's a friend from Brussels,
I'll explain later.
Hum... 15 he going to stay here?
Yes... Why?
Is there a problem?
I don't like the way he looks.
Are you afraid he might steal
something from you?
Tell me...
Where are you going?
I'm meeting Joao Maria and Leonor.
Then don't bother coming home!
What?
You heard me!
If you're going to meet those people,
don't bother coming home tonight.
Look...
If that's what you want, I won't.
Have you no shame?
People are talking all over town!
If your father was alive...
you'd break his heart!
If my father was alive
he'd be very proud of me!
Don't play coy with me!
People know damn well what's going on
in that house, you hear me?
Who do you think you are?
You think you're one of them?
You're a ﬁsherman's daughter!
Don't fool yourself!
You can't afford to behave like them.
They've got their mummies and daddies
to protect them.
They're privileged.
You're not!
Can't you see they're having fun
at your expense?
If you won't do it for me, at least do
it for your father, God rest his soul.
My father?! My father fought very hard
for this country to be free!
He suffered a great deal. He was
arrested, he did everything he could
so I wouldn't end up here,
like he did!
Don't you dare compare yourself
to your father, you hear me?
You're a woman! Don't be ridiculous!
If it's ridiculous to you,
I'm really sorry,
but I won't stop living my life just
because of what others think of me.
What about me?
Don't you care about what I think?
At all?!
blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus.
Holy Mary, Mother of God,
pray for us sinners,
now and at the hour of our death. Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace
The Lord is with thee
Blessed art thou amongst women...
Oh, what a shame...!
We're too late.
Yeah...
We should have come sooner.
- Maybe there's a matinee on Sunday!
- Yeah, maybe.
It says today was the last day.
Oh well...
We'll come back next year!
Pedro...
- Would you like to see the circus?
- I'd like to see it too.
Uncle Al Berto is going to fix this,
okay?
Good evening!
Good evening.
I'd like to talk to
the person in charge.
That'll be me.
How can I help you?
- I have an invitation for you.
- An invitation?
FAIRIES OUT!
Who did this, Leandrinho?
- I don't know.
- You do.
You know, but you won't tell me.
I can't.
Why?
Because you don't want to know.
Was it someone in the house?
No.
It was the whole town, Master Al Berto.
People are talking.
And you know...
when people talk...
- They don't know what they say.
You're right, they don't.
But now they're free
to speak their mind.
- Hello!
- Good afternoon!
- Welcome!
- Thank you.
I've invited all the parents
from Pedro's school,
and Miguel's brought
his buddies from the factory.
Hello, good afternoon!
They wanted whores and fairies,
they're getting Cam6es,
Florbela, Baudelaire, Sophia!
Al Berto, only you
would say something like that!
- Yeah, right!
- I'd like to introduce you Candinha.
- What a beauty, Duarte!
- Thank you!
- Hello!
- Hello.
- Pleasure.
- Thank you so much for inviting us.
Duarte told me there'd be poetry
and I love poetry,
but I apologise
for dressing like this,
I'm on holiday
and didn't have time to...
That's alright, dear.
Poetry doesn't have a dress code yet.
Better than dressing properly to
read it, you should read it in bed...
naked!
- That's what I keep telling her!
Shut up!
Enjoy. Later!
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Welcome!
Good afternoon!
It is a great honour welcoming you here
to our ﬁrst poetry recital
in Maison Pidwell.
Our programme today includes
some of the most distinguished
figures of international poetry.
I'd like to start with reciting
a poem from the heart
by George Sand.
Here goes.
La nature est
Tout ce qu'on voit
Tout ce qu'on veut
Tout ce qu'on aime
Tout ce qu'on sait
Tout ce qu'on croit
Tout ce que I'on sent
En soi-méme
Elle est belle
A qui Ia voit
‘Elle est bonne
A celui qui I'aime
Elle est juste
Quand on y croit
Et qu'on Ia respecte
En soi-méme
Regarde Ie ciel
II te voit
Embrasse Ia terre
Elle t'aime
La vérité
C'est ce qu'on croit
En la nature
C'est toi-méme
Bravo!
Thank you!
Thank you so much! Thank you!
Merci! Merci!
Thank you!
And now we shall continue with...
the complete reading
of The Lusiads. It shouldn't take long!
Thank you so much!
What a wonderful soirée!
Seriously! I never would've guessed.
Your mother would be
very proud, Al Berto.
- Thank you so much for coming.
- Don't mention it!
The palace is absolutely gorgeous!
I'd never been here.
Only imagined what it would be like.
It's gorgeous! Gorgeous.
You're very welcome here.
It's a shame the house
isn't yours anymore.
Your family must be devastated.
But, if you need anything,
don't hesitate. You can count on us.
Can I?
Then tell your lady friends that
we don't eat children for breakfast.
Good afternoon.
- Good afternoon.
- God bless.
Good afternoon.
I bet the husband will drop by later
tonight saying he forgot something!
- Hey, sorw! Excuse me.
- Yes?
Is this a hotel or something?
- Depends... What you are looking for!
- Maria...
What can we do for you guys?
J' habite seul avec maman
Dans un trés vieil appartement
Rue Sarasate
J'ai pour me tenir compagnie
Une tortue, deux canaris
Et urre chatte
Pour Iaisser maman reposer
Trés souventje fais Ie marche'
Et Ia cuisine
Je range, je lave
J'essuie
A I'occasion je pique aussi
A la machine
Le travail ne me fait pas
Peur
Je suis un peu décorateur
Un peu styliste
Mais mon vrai métier
C'est la nuit
Or) je I'exerce, travesti
Je suis artiste
J'ai un numéro trés spécial
Qui ﬁnit en nu inte'gral
Aprés strip-tease
Et dans la salle
Je vois que
Les males n'en croient pas
Leurs yeux
Je suis un homo
Comme ils disent
A I'heure ou naft
Un jour nouveau
- What's up?
- Hey...
Why aren't you dancing?
No...
Unless you want to.
Why have I never
seen you with a boyfriend?
Because I've never had one.
Would you like to?
I don't think about it anymore.
- Come on.
- Huh?
- Please don't...
N'a pas [6 draft en vérité
De me blamer, de me juger
Etje précise
Qui sait bien la nature qui
Et Ie seul responsable ici
Je suis un homo
Comme ils disent
You won't see me crying tonight.
Al Berto.
Your name contains
a huge abyss.
This house is just the first plunge.
Others will come...
Ever darker,
lonelier, truer.
You must experience it all, so then
you'll want nothing but to write.
I gather this is a town of poets.
No, it isn't.
It's you who illuminates people.
You see what's inside.
You see things
they can't even imagine...
But that's not your job.
This world is doomed, Al Berto.
We're all doomed.
We'll all end up dying alone.
What the hell are you doing here?
Get out.
- Get out!
- Stop it, Al Berto!
You think I didn't see you?
What have you been doing till now?
- You pig!
- Stop it, Al Berto! Stop!
- Traitor!
- Stop it!
- Al Berto, what's going on?
- Get the hell out!
Do you think I deserve this?
Look at it!
- Look!
- Stop it, Al Berto.
- Why, Joao? Tell me!
- Let's talk.
Do you think I deserve it?
- I don't deserve this!
- Stop it!
Stop it, both of you!
You're crazy and you're sick!
Sick!
Cut it out,
I didn't do anything!
I knew it.
I knew it!
All that talk...
and you're just
like your fucking father!
That's it, stop it!
I hate you!
- Come on, it'll be good for you.
- Manuela, I don't want it!
Manuela, please go.
Don't you want me to call him?
No.
It's better this way.
Sooner or later everything ends.
But he loves you...
I know he does, Al Berto.
He was drunk, that's all.
I saw him, Duarte!
I saw him...
I've known Joao since we were kids.
I know he wouldn't do
something like that.
On top of everything
that's going on in his house?!
Come on.
At least talk to him.
What for?
Will it change anything?
If you love him, it will.
And it may even change
something in him.
Aren't you supposed to feel lost
when you're in love?
"Des humains suffrages
Des communs élans
- "Et Ia tu te de'gages"
- My 1050...
- "Et voles selon"
- My wind...
- "Puisque de vous seules"
- My August...
-"Braises de satin "
- Don't be scared...
-"Le Devoir s'exhale sans qu'on dise"
-I'm here.
"enﬁn".
Would you ever cheat on someone, B.?
I don't know...
It never happened to me.
-"La‘ pas d'espérance"
-AI Berto. . .
- "Nul orietur"
- Your name contains a huge abyss.
"Science avec patience
- "Le supp/ice est sﬁr"
- You won 't see me crying tonight.
- "Elle est retrouvée"
-The world isn't real unless a man cries.
"Quoi?
"L'Eternité".
I'd like a whisky.
I've already told you
we've got nothing of the sort!
Those are my things!
Do you have a warrant
to search the house, ofﬁcer?
Those are my son's!
Mr Al Berto...
Mr Al Berto is not the owner
of this property, madam.
This is an illegal occupation.
And sooner or later you will get
an eviction order.
How can you do something like this,
in the middle of the night?
Run, Zé!
Zé, where are you going, man?
Come here!
No!
- No! No. Zé!
- I'm sorry!
‘- Zé!
- I m sorry!
- I'm sorry!
- No...
We are good people.
And until proven otherwise
you have no right to say these things.
Let me go!
You'll hear from us soon.
It's alright, sweetheart.
It's over.
I failed yet again in providing
a home for my son.
Sooner or later they'll send us away...
And we've got nowhere to go.
I'm sorry.
I truly am.
Your future is at stake here.
Those people aren't good for anyone.
- That's not true.
- You're going to your aunt's.
You'll be alright there.
You'll be safe...
And you can apply yourself to
your books... You'll be focused, love.
Those people aren't good for you.
Child. . . !
I don't want to go, Sara...
I don't want to go.
Let's go, Clara!
- Clara, let's go!
- I don't want to go...
Clara, you are going to Lisbon
and that's ﬁnal!
If you're looking for your son
I don't know where he is.
No...
I came to see you.
Jorge de Sena.
Poetry, poetry...
Do you really think this is
what people need?
Books?
IfI didn't, I wouldn't have
opened the door.
I wouldn't have come back to Sines...
You know what, Al Berto?
People starved for many years.
They starved.
And then too many sons
died in the war.
I was lucky, mine came back.
But some weren't that lucky.
The war is over, Mr Vicente.
The country is free.
There are plenty of jobs at the
complex. What seems to be the problem?
You know damn well
what the problem is.
Custédio's son was arrested!
They found drugs at the Palace.
And everyone knows, the parties...
Everyone talks about it...
The way you people live...
I don't care about what they say.
I only care about what you think.
Is it because
your son and I are together?
Don't be ridiculous!
You people don't understand anything!
You don't understand life!
And who do we need approval from?
You?
The party? The town?
Wasn't that supposed to have ended
with the dictatorship?
What have we been doing
that is so terrible?
Just remember one thing.
You have somewhere to go
once you get tired of all this shit...
You have somewhere to go!
Joao Maria doesn't.
Joao Maria... doesn't.
Promise me.
What?
Promise you'll never leave me.
I promise.
Al Berto!
- Joao Maria!
- What is it?
- Look!
- What's going on?
- What the fuck's going on?
- Come down here!
Open the door!
Get the hell out of here!
Manuela, bring the kid downstairs.
It's safer.
What was that?
Al Berto, the door isn't locked!
- Stop it!
- Joao!
Miguel!
Master Al Berto, they're coming in
through the kitchen!
Miguel, go get Pedro!
- What do I do?
- Call the police, quickly.
Leandrinho, help me!
Stop!
Go away!
- Leave us alone!
- Master Al Berto!
Move, move!
I'm going to handle this!
What do you want?
You have eight days
to leave this house!
Or we'll be back!
Leave!
If anything happens to my son I swear
I'll kill each and every one of you!
You hear me?
I'll kill you with my bare hands!
Can you tell us what's going on?
I don't know...
You let those who could've answered
get away, officer!
Why don't you go after them?
Because I'm asking you,
Mr Alberto Pidwell Tavares.
What's happened to the lights?
How long have you been
living here?
Two years.
You're aware that
this property has been seized.
As has half the town...
All our properties
have been seized and then occupied.
Isn't it ironic?
I occupied my own house!
The law doesn't accept
irony as a right
to illegal occupation, Mr Alberto.
- That's too bad.
Until today, no one has forbidden us
to live in this house, ofﬁcer. No one!
This house is shutdown,
there's no owner.
I mean, no one knows who they are.
So, tell me, why can't I live here
with my son?
Do you want me to live on the street?
- You should have thought about it...
- You know who these people are!
Excuse me?
Yes!
They are friends of my father's...
Or are you going to tell me
you don't know who my father is?
Or my brother Chico?
Or my brother Carrau?
Well...
Would you like to ﬁle a complaint?
May I?
Ofﬁcially, no.
At least not against the property.
But against your life
and the life of these people, you may.
No, no, no.
- What?!
- No.
We'll do no such thing!
You should file a complaint against us,
since you're assuming
we're the ones breaking the law.
I can't do that.
Well, then, good night.
How old is he?
Four
What's his name?
Vicente.
He's so cute.
Yes...
And a brat.
He has yet to give me
a lot of headaches.
He takes after those people...
Joao didn't mean it.
- Once he starts, he...
- I know.
I understand.
He's only taking his mother's side.
That's life.
But there...
It was what it was.
It was almost twenty years...
But when you love someone,
you love them all the way.
You do what you have to do.
And I loved
Joao Maria's father very much.
So much so,
I had everyone against me, as if...
You know what it's like.
Ido...
I had to close the bookshop.
I had such high hopes for Sines,
yet Sines had none for me.
You're different...
You've been out there,
you've seen the future.
But the future hasn't arrived here yet.
Well, I'd better go
before it starts raining...
Miss Alcide?
Pourquoi?
Je suis son pére...
J'ai Ie droit!
Oui.
Je suis au Portugal.
Alors, je viens a‘ Bruxelles.
Aid?
- Can I burn a cigarette?
- Sure.
What's his name?
I don't know.
His mother must've changed
his name by now. I don't know...
No one knows where they are...
Or they do, but they won't tell me.
How do you live like this?
You don't.
You survive...
Why did you stay?
Why didn't you leave?
ButI did, Al Berto.
I ran away from here.
I came back six months ago.
It didn't work out...
They didn't let me stay.
I took my son to Canada,
but they didn't let us stay.
So I came back.
I had to buy everything again.
I came back with only my son
and a bag of clothes.
I had to start over...
When I arrived in Sines I thought
things would be a lot easier.
It made sense.
My memories,
even the bad ones, are here.
It made sense to start here.
But it's not just up to us.
It's really tough.
And doing something different...
Being different...
You end up paying the price.
I have.
And you're paying it now.
He sent me a letter.
Saying he's in Lisbon
for a few weeks to take care of...
some stuff...
His book, the publisher...
Did he mention my book?
No.
I think my mother's right.
About what?
That my fate is to stay with her
down at the fish market.
Why won't you tell me
what happened?
He's your friend...
What about you?
I'm your friend too.
That's why.
It's better if you don't know anything.
What about us, Al Berto?
What are we going to do without you?
You'll keep on living...
But it isn't the same.
It will never be the same.
Good morning.
I have to get to work.
Will you be alright?
Yes...
and thank you.
You're a baby.
I can't stay here alone,
what can I say?
I miss him...
Yes, I know.
I'm going to bring some clothes tonight
because it's getting cold and...
sleeping naked is all very well,
but only in the movies.
Kiss...
See you later.
See you.
- Good afternoon, Miss Manuela.
- Good afternoon.
Here's a letter from the court.
The court?
I think it's about the house...
Belga?
Joaozinho...
You fucked around so much
you fucked everything up.
The party's over!
"Sailors of Empty Roads"
"Text: Joao Maria do O
Drawings: Al Berto"
Al Berto? Al Berto?
Al Berto?
Al Berto, come on! Al Berto!
Al Berto!
Fuck!
Please, Al Berto...
Al Berto...
Al Berto!
{Li—2
A ﬁlm by
Cinematography
Music
Produced by
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org